# Language comparison and GC

## Langugage comparison

- What are the difference between java and c++?
    1. Platform compatiability: JAVA - write once, run everywhere on JVM; C++: different codes on different matchine
    2. Better performance: compile to native language;
        a. java source code -> JVM (written in C++) readable byte code(.java -> .class) - compile
        b. JVM interprets the Java bytecode to pre-compiled routine on machine code - interpret.
    3. JIT (just in time) compilation to compile the bytecode to native instruction; - compile
    4. Object-Orient Program paradigm - everything in java is a class/object
    5. All types (primitives, reference types) are always passed by value;
    6. Java does not support unsigned numbers;
    7. Pointer v.s. reference: no pointer arithmetics.
        - reference in Java are strongly typed;
        - no pointer arithmetic on references;
    8. No operator overloading. "+""-"
    9. Class/Objects are always allocated on the heap, no way on stack
    10. Gabbage collection. Don't have to consider memory management/ memory leak;
    11. Single inheritance generally. or implementing multiple interfaces;
    
- What is the java's compiler/interpreter/JVM/JRE/JDK?
    - compiler: javac
    - interpreter: jvm
    - vitural machine: JVM - JRE is the JVM program: JRE = JVM + library class;
    - JRE: java running environment; 
    - JDK: java development kit; contains tool for developing programs running on JRE

- What is JVM?
    - the JVM is an abstract computing machine. The JVM is a program that looks like a machine to programs written to execute it.
    

## Garbage collection

- Why we need Garbage collection? What exactly the problem it tries to solve?
    - More efficiently manage dynamic memory allocation;
    
- How does the GC work in Java? 

- What is GC component?

- How to determine what objects can be collected?


- What is automatic garbage collection?
    1. Marking
    2. Normal deletion
        a. normal deletion
        b. deletion with compacting
    3. JVM generation
    
- Why use generation in GC?



- What are differences between final, finally and finalize?  
    - final can be used with method or variable or class;
    - finally use with try to do testing; finally blocks of codes always executes;
    - finalize() method is used just before the object is destroyed;
    
- Why you should minimize the use of finalized()?
    - costly;
    - doesn't trigger GC immediately - it's only a hint for the JVM to start GC;
    - JVM knows better on the used of finalize();  