# Language comparison and GC

## Language comparison
<details><summary></summary>
<p>

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>- What are the difference between java and c++?</summary>
<ol>
    <li> Platform compatibility: JAVA - write once, run everywhere on JVM; C++: different codes on different machine </li>
    <li> Better performance: compile to native language; 
        <ol>
            <li> java source code -> JVM (written in C++) readable byte code(.java -> .class) - compile  </li>
            <li> JVM interprets the Java bytecode to pre-compiled routine on machine code - interpret. </li>
        </ol>
    </li>
    <li> JIT (just in time) compilation to compile the bytecode to native instruction; - compile</li>
    <li> Object-Orient Program paradigm - everything in java is a class/object </li>
    <li> All types (primitives, reference types) are always passed by value;</li>
    <li> Java does not support unsigned numbers; </li>
    <li> Pointer v.s. reference: no pointer arithmetics. 
        - reference in Java are strongly typed;
        - no pointer arithmetic on references;
     </li>
    <li> No operator overloading. "+""-" </li>
    <li> Class/Objects are always allocated on the heap, no way on stack </li>
    <li> Gabbage collection. Don't have to consider memory management/ memory leak; </li>
    <li> Single inheritance generally. or implementing multiple interfaces;</li>
</ol>
</details>

<details><summary>- What is the java's compiler/interpreter/JVM/JRE/JDK?</summary>
<ul>
    <li> compiler: javac </li>
    <li> interpreter: jvm </li>
    <li> vitural machine: JVM - JRE is the JVM program: JRE = JVM + library class; </li>
    <li> JRE: java running environment; </li>
    <li> JDK: java development kit; contains tool for developing programs running on JRE</li>
</ul>
</details>
    
<details><summary>- What is JVM?</summary>
<ul>
    - the JVM is an abstract computing machine. The JVM is a program that looks like a machine to programs written to execute it.
</ul>
</details>



  

## Garbage collection

- Why we need Garbage collection? What exactly the problem it tries to solve?
    - More efficiently manage dynamic memory allocation;
    
- How does the GC work in Java? 

- What is GC component?

- How to determine what objects can be collected?


<details><summary>- What is automatic garbage collection?</summary>
<p>
    <ol>
        <li>Marking</li>
        <li>Normal deletion: normal deletion / deletion with compacting</li>
        <li>JVM generation</li>
    </ol>
</p>
</details>


    
- Why use generation in GC?


<details><summary>- What are differences between final, finally and finalize? </summary>
<p>
    <ul>
        <li>final can be used with method or variable or class;</li>
        <li>finally use with try to do testing; finally blocks of codes always executes;</li>
        <li>finalize() method is used just before the object is destroyed;</li>
    </ul>
</p>
</details>

    
<details><summary>Why you should minimize the use of finalized()?</summary>
<p>
    <ul>
        <li>costly;</li>
        <li>doesn't trigger GC immediately - it's only a hint for the JVM to start GC;</li>
        <li>JVM knows better on the used of finalize(); </li>
    </ul>
</p>
</details>

<details><summary>What are 4 kinds of GC roots in Java?</summary>
<p>
    <ul>
        <li>local variables are kept alive by the stack of a thread;</li>
        <li>active java threads - memory leak GC roots - use constants pool to solve the problem</li>
        <li>static variables</li>
        <li>JNI (java native interface): not operable by user</li>
    </ul>
</p>
</details>
